# What's BLE?
-[Marc Steven](https://medium.com/@MarcStevenCoder)
---

In a short it's digital radio protocol.
It works by transmitting radio signal from computer to another.
Bluettoth supports a hub-and -spoke model of connectivity.
One device acts as a hub , or "Central" in bluetooth terminology, other devices acts as "Peripherals"

A central may hold several simultaneous connections with a number of peripherals , but a peripheral may only hold one connection at time.
Hence the names central and peripheral.

The central has two modes:Scanning and connected.
The peripheral has two modes: Advertising and connected.The peripheral must be advertising for the central to see it.
## Advertising
A peripheral advertises by advertising its  device name and other information on one radio frequency , then on another in a process known as frequency hopping.
In doing so ,it reduces radio interference created from reflected signals or other devices.
# Scanning
The central listens for a server's advertisement first on one radio frequency, then on another until it discovers an advertisement from a
peripheral. The process is not unlike that of trying to find a good show to watch on TV.
The time between radio frequency hops of the scanning central happens at a different speed than the frequency hops of the advertising peripheral.
That way the scan and advertisement will eventually overlap so that the two can connect.
Each device has a unique media access control address that identifies it on the network. Peripherals advertise this mac address along with
other information about the peripheral's seetings.

## Connecting 
A central may connect to a peripheral after the central has seen the peripheral's advertisement.
The connection involves some kind of handshaking which is handled by the devices at the hardware or firmware level.
While connected , the peripheral may not connect to any other device.

## Disconnecting 
A central may disconnect from a peripheral at any time. The peripheral is aware of the disconnection.

## Communication

A Central may send and request data to a peripheral through something called a "Characteristic".
Characteristics are provided by the peripheral for the central to access.
A characteristic may have one or more properties, for example Read or write. Each characteristic belongs to a service, which is like
a container for Characeristics. This is called the Bluetooth Generic Attribute profile
